README.md, before:

# TR-069 CWMP Management System with Integrated CMS

A complete TR-069 (CWMP) Auto Configuration Server with **integrated web-based CMS**, **recursive parameter discovery** and **production authentication**. **Successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters** from real Huawei EG8041V5 device including complete network, WiFi, and port configurations.

## 🚀 Key Features - PRODUCTION PROVEN

- 🎉 **Modular Web CMS** - Complete web interface with modular architecture and real-time dashboard
- 🎉 **Massive Parameter Discovery** - Successfully discovered **1,196+ parameters** from real device
- ✅ **HTTP Digest Authentication** - Production authentication working with device credentials  
- ✅ **Recursive Discovery System** - GenieACS-inspired tree traversal with 80+ path exploration
- ✅ **Real-time Dashboard** - Monitor connected devices with automatic status updates
- ✅ **Background Server** - Persistent operation with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Production Device Support** - Fully tested and working with Huawei EG8041V5 ONT/Router

## 🏁 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies (requires Bun)
bun install

# Create environment configuration
echo "PORT=7547
HOST=0.0.0.0
CMS_SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-key-here" > .env

# Start server in development
bun run dev

# Or start in background for production
nohup bun src/index.ts > server.log 2>&1 &

# Access Web CMS
open http://localhost:7547/cms
# Login: admin / admin123 or tr069 / cwmp2024

# Check device status via API
curl -s "http://localhost:7547/devices" | jq
```

## 🖥️ Web CMS Interface - Modular Architecture

**Access**: `http://localhost:7547/cms`

### ✨ New Modular Features:
- 🏗️ **Modular Architecture** - Clean separation of components, templates, and logic
- 🔐 **Secure Login** - Session-based authentication
- 📊 **Real-time Dashboard** - Live device monitoring
- 📱 **Responsive Design** - Works on all devices  
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Updates every 30 seconds
- 📈 **Device Statistics** - Total, connected, last activity
- 📶 **WiFi Management** - Complete WiFi configuration interface
- 🔧 **Component Reusability** - Shared UI components across all pages

### Default Credentials:
- **Admin**: `admin` / `admin123`
- **TR-069**: `tr069` / `cwmp2024`

⚠️ **Change these credentials in production!**

## 📡 Production Device Results

**✅ PRODUCTION SUCCESS with Huawei EG8041V5:**
- **Device**: Huawei EG8041V5 ONT/Router (Serial: [REDACTED])
- **Firmware**: V5R021C00S230 - FULLY SUPPORTED
- **Authentication**: HTTP Digest with device credentials - WORKING PERFECTLY  
- **Discovery Results**: **1,196+ parameters discovered** - COMPLETE SUCCESS
- **Network Access**: Complete WAN/LAN configuration discovered
- **WiFi Access**: All SSIDs, passwords, security settings discovered  
- **Management**: Full device configuration and diagnostic access

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### TR-069/CWMP Endpoints
| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | POST | Main CWMP endpoint (Inform, responses) |
| `/devices` | GET | List all registered devices |
| `/device/:serial` | GET | Get device details and parameters |
| `/device/:serial/params` | GET | Get device parameters only |
| `/full-discovery` | POST | Trigger recursive parameter discovery |
| `/pull-params` | POST | Pull specific parameters from device |
| `/connection-request` | POST | Send connection request to device |
| `/queue-method` | POST | Queue TR-069 method for device |

### CMS Web Interface - Modular Routes
| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/cms` | GET | CMS Dashboard (redirect to login if needed) |
| `/cms/login` | GET/POST | Login page and authentication |
| `/cms/dashboard` | GET | Main dashboard with device management (requires auth) |
| `/cms/wifi/:serial` | GET | WiFi configuration page for specific device (requires auth) |
| `/cms/logout` | GET | Logout and destroy session |
| `/cms/api/devices` | GET | Device list API for dashboard (requires auth) |
| `/cms/api/device/:serial/params` | GET | Device parameters API (requires auth) |
| `/cms/api/device/:serial/action` | POST | Device actions API (reboot, discovery, etc.) (requires auth) |
| `/cms/scripts/*.js` | GET | Static JavaScript modules for frontend functionality |

## 🎯 Parameter Discovery - PRODUCTION RESULTS

The system **successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters** from real device including:

- 🌐 **Complete Network Configuration** - WAN/LAN settings, routing, DHCP, DNS ✅ DISCOVERED
- 📶 **Full WiFi Management** - Multiple SSIDs, passwords, security, channels ✅ DISCOVERED  
- 🔒 **Port & Firewall Configuration** - Port forwarding, NAT, security rules ✅ DISCOVERED
- 📊 **Hardware & Diagnostics** - Device info, capabilities, performance metrics ✅ DISCOVERED
- ⚙️ **Management & TR-069** - Complete ACS configuration and device control ✅ DISCOVERED

**Discovery Process**: Recursive tree exploration with 80+ paths traversed, session-based discovery preventing device busy errors, batch parameter value retrieval for optimal performance.

## 📋 Usage Example

```bash
# Device connects automatically and triggers discovery
# Check discovered parameters
curl -s "http://localhost:7547/device/DEVICE_SERIAL" | jq

# Manual discovery trigger (if needed)
curl -X POST "http://localhost:7547/full-discovery?serial=DEVICE_SERIAL"
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Device → Inform (BOOT/PERIODIC) → Auto-Discovery Check → 
Session-Based Discovery → Parameter Tree Traversal → 
Batch Value Retrieval → Complete Database Storage
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
tr069Management/
├── src/
│   ├── auth/
│   │   └── session.ts           # CMS session management & authentication
│   ├── cms/                     # ✨ NEW MODULAR CMS ARCHITECTURE
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── layout.ts        # Reusable UI components (header, nav, modals)
│   │   │   └── styles.ts        # Centralized CSS styles
│   │   ├── html/
│   │   │   ├── login.ts         # Login page template
│   │   │   ├── dashboard.ts     # Dashboard page template
│   │   │   └── wifi-config.ts   # WiFi configuration page template
│   │   ├── scripts/
│   │   │   ├── dashboard-core.js    # Core dashboard functions
│   │   │   ├── device-management.js # Device details and parameters
│   │   │   ├── device-actions.js    # Device control actions
│   │   │   └── wifi-config.js       # WiFi configuration logic
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   │   ├── pages.ts         # Page routing (login, dashboard, wifi)
│   │   │   ├── api.ts           # REST API endpoints for CMS
│   │   │   ├── auth.ts          # Authentication routes
│   │   │   └── static.ts        # Static script serving
│   │   └── index.ts             # Main CMS router
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── devices.ts           # Device management API
│   │   ├── soap.ts              # SOAP/CWMP protocol handling
│   │   ├── connection.ts        # Connection request handling
│   │   ├── discovery.ts         # Parameter discovery system
│   │   └── queue.ts             # Method queue management
│   ├── index.ts                 # Main server entry point
│   ├── server.ts                # Express server configuration
│   ├── auth.ts                  # TR-069 authentication utilities
│   └── store.ts                 # Device data persistence
├── data/
│   └── devices.json             # Complete device database
├── docs/
│   ├── PROGRESS.md              # Detailed development progress
│   └── Summary.md               # Comprehensive project summary (consolidated)
├── .env                         # Environment configuration
└── server.log                   # Runtime logs (when running in background)
```

## 🔐 Security

### TR-069 Protocol Security
- **HTTP Digest Authentication** with device-specific credentials
- **Secure SOAP** message handling with validation
- **Credential Management** with persistent storage

### CMS Web Security
- **Session-based Authentication** with secure cookies
- **CSRF Protection** via session tokens
- **Route Protection** middleware for authenticated areas
- **Configurable Session Secrets** via environment variables

### Production Security Recommendations
⚠️ **CRITICAL for Production Deployment**:
1. **Change default CMS credentials** in `src/auth/session.ts`
2. **Enable HTTPS** and set `cookie.secure: true`
3. **Use strong session secret** in environment variable `CMS_SESSION_SECRET`
4. **Configure firewall** to restrict CMS access to admin networks
5. **Regular credential rotation** for both CMS and device authentication

## 🚀 Production Deployed & Proven

- ✅ **Integrated Web CMS**: Complete management interface with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Real device authentication**: HTTP Digest working in production
- ✅ **Massive parameter discovery**: 1,196+ parameters successfully discovered  
- ✅ **Background server**: Stable operation with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Advanced session management**: Recursive discovery with path queuing
- ✅ **Performance optimized**: Batch processing, session-based discovery
- ✅ **Production-ready CMS**: Secure authentication, responsive design, auto-refresh

## 📈 Production Status

🎉 **PRODUCTION SUCCESS: TR-069 ACS with modular CMS successfully deployed! Complete web management interface with clean modular architecture provides real-time device monitoring and control. Successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters from real Huawei EG8041V5 device. Complete network, WiFi, and port configurations accessible via both API and web interface. Authentication working perfectly for both TR-069 protocol and web CMS. Modular architecture ensures maintainability and scalability. System ready for production deployment with comprehensive management capabilities.**

## 🎯 Management Capabilities

### Via Web CMS (`/cms`):
- 👥 **User Management** - Secure login with multiple user accounts
- 📊 **Real-time Dashboard** - Live device status and statistics  
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Continuous monitoring without manual refresh
- 📱 **Responsive Interface** - Access from any device or screen size
- 📈 **Device Analytics** - Connection patterns and performance metrics

### Via REST API:
- 🔌 **Device Discovery** - Automatic and manual parameter discovery
- ⚙️ **Configuration Management** - Read/write device parameters
- 🚨 **Connection Control** - Trigger device connections on demand
- 📋 **Method Queuing** - Schedule TR-069 operations
- 📊 **Status Monitoring** - Real-time device state tracking

---

*For detailed technical information, see `docs/Summary.md` and `docs/PROGRESS.md`*

Commit message:

feat: Enhance UI with sidebar navigation and modern design elements; add technical documentation for API routes and CMS styles

README.md, after:

# TR-069 CWMP Management System with Integrated CMS

A complete TR-069 (CWMP) Auto Configuration Server with **integrated web-based CMS**, **recursive parameter discovery** and **production authentication**. **Successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters** from real Huawei EG8041V5 device including complete network, WiFi, and port configurations.

## 🚀 Key Features - PRODUCTION PROVEN

- 🎉 **Modular Web CMS** - Complete web interface with modular architecture and real-time dashboard
- 🎉 **Massive Parameter Discovery** - Successfully discovered **1,196+ parameters** from real device
- ✅ **HTTP Digest Authentication** - Production authentication working with device credentials  
- ✅ **Recursive Discovery System** - GenieACS-inspired tree traversal with 80+ path exploration
- ✅ **Real-time Dashboard** - Monitor connected devices with automatic status updates
- ✅ **Background Server** - Persistent operation with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Production Device Support** - Fully tested and working with Huawei EG8041V5 ONT/Router

## 🏁 Quick Start

```bash
# Install dependencies (requires Bun)
bun install

# Create environment configuration
echo "PORT=7547
HOST=0.0.0.0
CMS_SESSION_SECRET=your-secret-key-here" > .env

# Start server in development
bun run dev

# Or start in background for production
nohup bun src/index.ts > server.log 2>&1 &

# Access Web CMS
open http://localhost:7547/cms
# Login: admin / admin123 or tr069 / cwmp2024

# Check device status via API
curl -s "http://localhost:7547/devices" | jq
```

## 🖥️ Web CMS Interface - Modular Architecture

**Access**: `http://localhost:7547/cms`

### ✨ New Modular Features:
- 🏗️ **Modular Architecture** - Clean separation of components, templates, and logic
- � **Sidebar Navigation** - Professional left sidebar with fixed positioning
- �🔐 **Secure Login** - Session-based authentication
- 📊 **Real-time Dashboard** - Live device monitoring with modern UI
- 📱 **Responsive Design** - Works on all devices with adaptive layout
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Updates every 30 seconds
- 📈 **Device Statistics** - Total, connected, last activity
- 📶 **WiFi Management** - Complete WiFi configuration interface
- 🎨 **Modern Design** - Professional color scheme with hover effects
- 🔧 **Component Reusability** - Shared UI components across all pages

### Default Credentials:
- **Admin**: `admin` / `admin123`
- **TR-069**: `tr069` / `cwmp2024`

⚠️ **Change these credentials in production!**

## 📡 Production Device Results

**✅ PRODUCTION SUCCESS with Huawei EG8041V5:**
- **Device**: Huawei EG8041V5 ONT/Router (Serial: [REDACTED])
- **Firmware**: V5R021C00S230 - FULLY SUPPORTED
- **Authentication**: HTTP Digest with device credentials - WORKING PERFECTLY  
- **Discovery Results**: **1,196+ parameters discovered** - COMPLETE SUCCESS
- **Network Access**: Complete WAN/LAN configuration discovered
- **WiFi Access**: All SSIDs, passwords, security settings discovered  
- **Management**: Full device configuration and diagnostic access

## 🔧 API Endpoints

### TR-069/CWMP Endpoints
| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/` | POST | Main CWMP endpoint (Inform, responses) |
| `/devices` | GET | List all registered devices |
| `/device/:serial` | GET | Get device details and parameters |
| `/device/:serial/params` | GET | Get device parameters only |
| `/full-discovery` | POST | Trigger recursive parameter discovery |
| `/pull-params` | POST | Pull specific parameters from device |
| `/connection-request` | POST | Send connection request to device |
| `/queue-method` | POST | Queue TR-069 method for device |

### CMS Web Interface - Modular Routes
| Endpoint | Method | Description |
|----------|--------|-------------|
| `/cms` | GET | CMS Dashboard (redirect to login if needed) |
| `/cms/login` | GET/POST | Login page and authentication |
| `/cms/dashboard` | GET | Main dashboard with device management (requires auth) |
| `/cms/wifi/:serial` | GET | WiFi configuration page for specific device (requires auth) |
| `/cms/logout` | GET | Logout and destroy session |
| `/cms/api/devices` | GET | Device list API for dashboard (requires auth) |
| `/cms/api/device/:serial/params` | GET | Device parameters API (requires auth) |
| `/cms/api/device/:serial/action` | POST | Device actions API (reboot, discovery, etc.) (requires auth) |
| `/cms/scripts/*.js` | GET | Static JavaScript modules for frontend functionality |

## 🎯 Parameter Discovery - PRODUCTION RESULTS

The system **successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters** from real device including:

- 🌐 **Complete Network Configuration** - WAN/LAN settings, routing, DHCP, DNS ✅ DISCOVERED
- 📶 **Full WiFi Management** - Multiple SSIDs, passwords, security, channels ✅ DISCOVERED  
- 🔒 **Port & Firewall Configuration** - Port forwarding, NAT, security rules ✅ DISCOVERED
- 📊 **Hardware & Diagnostics** - Device info, capabilities, performance metrics ✅ DISCOVERED
- ⚙️ **Management & TR-069** - Complete ACS configuration and device control ✅ DISCOVERED

**Discovery Process**: Recursive tree exploration with 80+ paths traversed, session-based discovery preventing device busy errors, batch parameter value retrieval for optimal performance.

## 📋 Usage Example

```bash
# Device connects automatically and triggers discovery
# Check discovered parameters
curl -s "http://localhost:7547/device/DEVICE_SERIAL" | jq

# Manual discovery trigger (if needed)
curl -X POST "http://localhost:7547/full-discovery?serial=DEVICE_SERIAL"
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

```
Device → Inform (BOOT/PERIODIC) → Auto-Discovery Check → 
Session-Based Discovery → Parameter Tree Traversal → 
Batch Value Retrieval → Complete Database Storage
```

## 📁 Project Structure

```
tr069Management/
├── src/
│   ├── auth/
│   │   └── session.ts           # CMS session management & authentication
│   ├── cms/                     # ✨ NEW MODULAR CMS ARCHITECTURE
│   │   ├── components/
│   │   │   ├── layout.ts        # Reusable UI components (header, nav, modals)
│   │   │   └── styles.ts        # Centralized CSS styles
│   │   ├── html/
│   │   │   ├── login.ts         # Login page template
│   │   │   ├── dashboard.ts     # Dashboard page template
│   │   │   └── wifi-config.ts   # WiFi configuration page template
│   │   ├── scripts/
│   │   │   ├── dashboard-core.js    # Core dashboard functions
│   │   │   ├── device-management.js # Device details and parameters
│   │   │   ├── device-actions.js    # Device control actions
│   │   │   └── wifi-config.js       # WiFi configuration logic
│   │   ├── routes/
│   │   │   ├── pages.ts         # Page routing (login, dashboard, wifi)
│   │   │   ├── api.ts           # REST API endpoints for CMS
│   │   │   ├── auth.ts          # Authentication routes
│   │   │   └── static.ts        # Static script serving
│   │   └── index.ts             # Main CMS router
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── devices.ts           # Device management API
│   │   ├── soap.ts              # SOAP/CWMP protocol handling
│   │   ├── connection.ts        # Connection request handling
│   │   ├── discovery.ts         # Parameter discovery system
│   │   └── queue.ts             # Method queue management
│   ├── index.ts                 # Main server entry point
│   ├── server.ts                # Express server configuration
│   ├── auth.ts                  # TR-069 authentication utilities
│   └── store.ts                 # Device data persistence
├── data/
│   └── devices.json             # Complete device database
├── docs/
│   ├── PROGRESS.md              # Detailed development progress
│   ├── Summary.md               # Comprehensive project summary (consolidated)
│   ├── cms_styles.md            # Complete CMS styles reference and documentation
│   └── routes.md                # Complete API routes reference for CWMP and CMS
├── .env                         # Environment configuration
└── server.log                   # Runtime logs (when running in background)
```

## 🔐 Security

### TR-069 Protocol Security
- **HTTP Digest Authentication** with device-specific credentials
- **Secure SOAP** message handling with validation
- **Credential Management** with persistent storage

### CMS Web Security
- **Session-based Authentication** with secure cookies
- **CSRF Protection** via session tokens
- **Route Protection** middleware for authenticated areas
- **Configurable Session Secrets** via environment variables

### Production Security Recommendations
⚠️ **CRITICAL for Production Deployment**:
1. **Change default CMS credentials** in `src/auth/session.ts`
2. **Enable HTTPS** and set `cookie.secure: true`
3. **Use strong session secret** in environment variable `CMS_SESSION_SECRET`
4. **Configure firewall** to restrict CMS access to admin networks
5. **Regular credential rotation** for both CMS and device authentication

## 🚀 Production Deployed & Proven

- ✅ **Integrated Web CMS**: Complete management interface with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Real device authentication**: HTTP Digest working in production
- ✅ **Massive parameter discovery**: 1,196+ parameters successfully discovered  
- ✅ **Background server**: Stable operation with real-time monitoring
- ✅ **Advanced session management**: Recursive discovery with path queuing
- ✅ **Performance optimized**: Batch processing, session-based discovery
- ✅ **Production-ready CMS**: Secure authentication, responsive design, auto-refresh

## 📈 Production Status

🎉 **PRODUCTION SUCCESS: TR-069 ACS with modular CMS successfully deployed! Complete web management interface with clean modular architecture provides real-time device monitoring and control. Successfully discovered 1,196+ parameters from real Huawei EG8041V5 device. Complete network, WiFi, and port configurations accessible via both API and web interface. Authentication working perfectly for both TR-069 protocol and web CMS. Modular architecture ensures maintainability and scalability. System ready for production deployment with comprehensive management capabilities.**

## 🎯 Management Capabilities

### Via Web CMS (`/cms`):
- 👥 **User Management** - Secure login with multiple user accounts
- 📊 **Real-time Dashboard** - Live device status and statistics  
- 🔄 **Auto-refresh** - Continuous monitoring without manual refresh
- 📱 **Responsive Interface** - Access from any device or screen size
- 📈 **Device Analytics** - Connection patterns and performance metrics

### Via REST API:
- 🔌 **Device Discovery** - Automatic and manual parameter discovery
- ⚙️ **Configuration Management** - Read/write device parameters
- 🚨 **Connection Control** - Trigger device connections on demand
- 📋 **Method Queuing** - Schedule TR-069 operations
- 📊 **Status Monitoring** - Real-time device state tracking

## 📚 Technical Documentation

### Reference Guides
- **[API Routes Reference](docs/routes.md)** - Complete documentation of all CWMP and CMS API endpoints
- **[CMS Styles Guide](docs/cms_styles.md)** - Comprehensive CSS styles reference for the CMS interface
- **[Development Progress](docs/PROGRESS.md)** - Detailed development progress and milestones
- **[Project Summary](docs/Summary.md)** - Comprehensive project overview and technical details

### Quick References
- **CMS Styling**: See `docs/cms_styles.md` for all CSS classes, components, and design patterns
- **API Integration**: See `docs/routes.md` for complete endpoint documentation with examples
- **Component Architecture**: All CMS components documented with usage examples and styling guides

---

*For detailed technical information, see the documentation files in the `docs/` directory*
